I'm Wesley Morris and this is
Cannonball.
[Music]
We parted in Venus, y'all, and woke up
in Mars on July 26, a Saturday. I was in
the Las Vegas taxi cab of a
distinguished gentleman named Shimeare.
He wore wraparound sunglasses and came
to the US 25 years ago from Ethiopia.
And he expertly drove me to Allegent
Stadium. And he instantly knew what was
up. Oh, you are here to see the queen.
The queen, of course, being Beyonce
Jazelle Nolles Carter. When I was a kid,
I could do Madonna's full name. It was
Madonna Louise, Veronica Chicone, Penn.
Anyway, that's right. I saw Beyonce on
the last night of her Cowboy Carter tour
along with 40,000 other people, her
subjects. We were all gathered to
witness maybe the country's greatest
living live entertainer do her thing.
So, I'm talking about the show, its
meaning, and what Beyonce's signifying
with the critic and scholar Salamisha
Tilllet, who's written a heap about
Beyonce.
>> Hi, Salamisha. Welcome to the Pop
Studio.
>> It's nice in here.
>> Yeah, it's very nice.
>> Okay, first of all, the question the the
immediate question is, give me some some
context here. Where did you see the
show? Well, this is my fifth Beyonce
concert.
>> Okay.
>> Um, and the last four I've gone to with
my sister Shaharzad, um, Tilllet,
>> and we've tried to curate the cities
based on the kind of theme of the show.
>> Um, so we went to Lemonade in Detroit
because a very black city. Um, the
concert that she did with Jay-Z we went
to in New York or New Jersey. I'm from
New Jersey. I'm going to claim New
Jersey in New Jersey. Um, we went to
Renaissance in New Orleans
>> and so we wanted to go to to a southern
city. So we went to Atlanta.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. So that was
Atlanta.
>> Yeah. But we try to curate the
experience to the theme of the concert
and to get the full range of like fandom
um that we anticipate based on the
location.
>> This is also this will be my my fifth or
sixth live Beyonce experience.
>> Yeah. Wow.
>> I love seeing her live. I love the
experience of other people experiencing
the show. And in this case, you know,
this is this was true for Renaissance.
It's also true here. It is as much like
a a fashion convention.
>> Yeah.
>> Um as it is you're just going to see a
concert.
>> Yeah.
>> And obviously we're talking this is
Cowboy Carter. We're talking about your
most patriotic
rodeooriented
simultaneously
19th century but also 26th century
outfits happening at the same time.
Yeah. You know, people were just like,
uh,
>> looking fabulous.
>> Wow. Some of the clothes.
>> Yeah.
>> Like there were
so many different people, body types,
ideas of what
>> Yeah.
>> the cowboy Carter like the the sort of
personally customized cowboy Carter
aesthetic was for them.
>> Yeah.
>> I see that you
>> are wearing like what I mean, did you
dress for me?
>> Yeah. Well,
>> or is this a reenactment of what you
wore for Beyonce?
>> For Beyonce, I um was very meticulous
>> cuz this is like Hold up Yellow.
>> Yeah. This is
>> They don't love You Like I Love You.
>> Yeah. This is like a nod to Lemonade, my
two favorite albums, I suppose. Lemonade
and and now Cowboy Carter. So, this is
this is for you. Um but also I'm
honored.
>> Yeah.
>> But it is um an attempt to kind of
capture the spirit of what I experience
at the show. So, for Cowboy Carter, I
wore a denim uh dress with a a
sweetheart um neckline, turquoise
earrings and a a bracelet, a tassel
sandals cuz I didn't want to wear cowboy
boots cuz I just I bought these sandals
specifically uh for the
>> these sandals that you're currently
wearing.
>> Yes, these sandals because I wanted to
have sequins.
>> I wanted tassel sequins, but I didn't
want to wear cowboy boots because I just
tend not to wear cowboy boots and I
didn't want to stand for the entirety of
the show being uncomfortable. I did have
a cowboy um charm uh bracelet.
>> You went all out.
>> I did. I'm a Virgo. I'm a fellow Virgo
to be honest. Are you I am. So, you have
to And then I had a hat like this. This
is the kind of This is the hat I wore.
And I had a a braid to the side. So,
playing with like the horse and the
braid. And so, I Yeah, I really was very
excited to dress up for I mean, I don't
do this. This is not This is what
Beyonce has brought out in all of us or
many of us. Um and I
>> I wore a romper.
>> Romper. Okay. Well, was it denim?
>> No, I just wore what I would have worn
like because it was hot as [__] in Las
Vegas.
>> Yeah, Las Vegas is hot.
>> I dressed I dressed for the heat. Okay.
>> Sorry, Beyonce.
>> Yeah. Well, I think for me, um,
Renaissance obviously was the first big
invitation she extended to her fans to
reflect the aesthetic of beauty and
shimmer and silver and glitter and
gorgeousness. And then I think that just
has carried over. uh she didn't have to
give us an invitation, a formal
invitation this time. We just knew we
knew what the assignment was. And you
know, you're mixing and matching and
undoing and redoing of American like the
kind of staple image of what the
American um cowboy is or could be. So, I
think that's what the album is doing.
That's that's what she's allowing us to
remember about the cowboy as a kind of
African-American male figure. But then
with coming off of Renaissance, we're
also queering it. We're also like
inviting um lots of other people to uh
be part of this project and we can do it
how we want to. I've never worn a cowboy
hat. I'm going to take it off right now
just because
>> I kind of like it. I mean, you look
great.
>> Great. Okay. Thank you. I'll take the
compliment, Wesley, but I'm going to
take off the hat right now.
>> Okay. just you know what I would say is
about you know in terms of like what
you're identifying in terms of like the
way people come together for this show.
>> Yeah.
>> I found it very moving.
>> Yeah. It was beautiful.
>> It was it was really wonderful to just
see all these different people
get the assignment.
>> Yeah.
>> Like old white women.
>> Straight couples.
>> Yeah. I was surprised by how
everybody the the the audience was like
everybody.
>> I didn't get any compliments because I
did not follow the assignment. But um
>> well you're you're a journalist.
>> It was very special to watch other
people just be like, "Girl, the outfit.
O, I wish I had done that." Yeah.
>> And just to see other people admiring
stopping people to take pictures, like
doing some Tik Toks with strangers.
>> Um that was great.
>> Um
>> well, I think what um and we're going to
obviously keep on talking about this
theme of uh Americanness that the album
um is engaging, is critiquing, and then
at the end renewing. Mhm.
>> Um but I do think part of what you're
pointing to is the way in which the
audience that we um feel like we belong
to something and it's not simply it's
not like Beyonce we're like at the
worshiping you know Beyonce and it's
this kind of unilateral um exchange of
energy. we're dressing up um and we're
part of the show. Like the audience in
its ideal version is a a kind of gesture
to what our citizenship could look like.
You could be multi multiaceted
>> that is that is
>> multi-tudinous diverse on your own, but
you're all in this project together. You
have this shared experience. And so I
think that's kind of what you're both
seeing when people it it may sound silly
because people are just dressing up.
>> Does not sound silly,
>> but it is really I think happening. But
I also think there's something about the
uh the Americanness of of the Cowboy
Carter project
>> that
>> I don't know. I think it is inviting you
to look at who's around you maybe more
than I would have at the other concert.
Yeah.
>> And I think that, you know, you're
talking about like a a sort of
multivarious citizenship
>> um that has that like come to experience
this woman's energy.
>> Yeah.
>> And and to see her. But I also think
that when you get to the show
>> Mhm.
>> Um or when I got to my show, because I
actually don't know if this I don't know
what is uniform. because Wesley went to
the last.
>> I went to the last one, but I also don't
know what happened at the other ones
because I just wanted to experience it
without knowing very much. I knew about
some things.
>> Some things reached me, but a lot a lot
of things didn't.
>> And so when you get there, here's a fan
video
>> from the American flag.
[Applause]
>> There is like a hold screen.
>> Yeah.
>> Of an American flag.
>> Yeah. that is, you know, it's a
projected image on a big in an enormous
monitor. There are tiles there are in
the shape of a, you know, forming an
American flag with some kind of
afroofuturist
>> shapes or who knows what they well not
who knows. She definitely is, but they
are they are pointing to something that
seems very future oriented in some way
while also
being in the shape of this flag. And I
felt like in some ways, you know, these
chips that form this flag sort of
reflect the I mean, we're not chips, but
we are part of this mosaic essentially.
>> Exactly.
>> Um that has come to experience the show.
>> And she starts with American Recreum,
right? So we have this like
>> which is the first song on the album.
>> First song on the album, first song of
the show. It is both
>> which is also kind of like a benediction
in some ways.
>> Benediction and allergy, right? There's
two things going on there.
>> You're getting the songs, you know.
>> Yeah.
But you're getting them
reconsidered.
>> Yeah.
>> The one thing about Calry Carter that
that I really that really struck me was
there's a restlessness. There was a
restlessness in this show.
>> Like she was eager to get somewhere
else.
>> Not like home. I mean someplace
creatively.
>> She's such a good interpreter of her of
her of her catalog.
>> Yeah. Of her cannon. and she almost
doesn't want to do the old songs if she
if there's no idea in the
>> Yeah.
>> in the doing of it.
>> Yeah. There's a couple of things I would
like to say. So, kind of back to the
conversation about the um greatest
living entertainer. Um and I there's a
genealogy that I put her in and I'm
curious what you would think of it.
Right. So,
>> so there's a Sorry, I just really
excited to talk about this.
I don't because I haven't like written
it yet. So, I'm like, "Oh, this is like
the first time to like play it out. I'm
experimenting with my ideas, too." But
one, I think we know that when she's
vocally and um can aesthetically
gesturing to all these different black
women, she becomes them. And so, there's
a way in which like the inclusion of
Linda Martell on this album,
>> you know, the country singer, country
songwriter, Linda Martell
>> is adding to
>> another another ring around the tree.
Beyonce is an artist who I think is the
most citational in the various um icons,
not only black, but often black icons
that she references. So she'll in her
repertoire it's Diana Ross and Josephine
Baker, right? It's like Nina Simone and
>> Robera Flack.
>> Roberto Flack. So that's one thing.
She's just like a syllabus constantly
giving us a new new syllabus of the
American
>> which can I can I pause you for one
second to complicate the the reception
of the presentation of that syllabus.
>> Yes.
>> Which is that it it frustrates people.
>> It does.
>> Um because it then calls into question
these these ideas of authorship and
ownership
>> which happened with Renaissance
specifically. But but it's always been
it it has always been an issue, right?
Like who really who really
>> who really
>> who really is authoring this?
>> Yes. Who's who's doing this work?
>> Yeah.
>> And I think that for as much as we are
defined by history here,
>> we are also deeply anti-historical.
>> Yeah.
>> We don't like being told anything about
ourselves.
>> Yeah.
>> And who we are.
>> Yeah. um
based on who we were.
>> Yeah.
>> And I think that allergy, but also this
very American love of the real, right,
>> of of just being au whatever authentic
is
>> um
>> doing something as part of a team or in
collaboration with with people, right?
>> Um
>> is somehow at least in terms of this
particular black woman
>> Yeah. deemed inauthentic.
>> Well, so so one what I was referring to
earlier is like she's deeply aware of
like the archive, right? So she's an
archavist. Sure. Right. Um and then I
think what you're alluding to is the way
in which collaboration and I saw this
even it's always been part of like is it
you know this idea of like the single
author or the single aur right um as the
definition of genius versus someone
who's collaborative and then renaissance
just is such a like and this is like the
kind of academic geek in me it's just so
hyper citational in terms of like
footnotes and credits that that album
cannot be seen as something that comes
from her mind. Right. So that's so that
she's an archavist. She's hyper
citational. And then the other thing I
would like to say about Beyonce that I
find really um when this idea that we
don't want to be reminded of our past,
it's also like that Beyonce is very
aware of the ways in which like black
women in particular who are oftentimes
the progenitors or the innovators of
different genres get forgotten for their
moment of innovation. Right? So you
think Rosetta Tharp with like rock and
roll, Linda Martell and country music,
right? And so Beyonce to me is someone
who refuses to be refuses oblivion,
>> right?
>> She she refuses the ongoing willful
forgetting of black women's
contributions to the American song book.
Like Frank Sinatra is chasing Billy
Holiday sound, right? Miles Davis is
chasing uh and Farah Griffin talks about
this in the essay When Melindy sings,
chasing the sound of a black woman in
the backwoods of a southern town. And I
value that because part of her project
is to remind us of the contributions of
black women before her and including
her. So she has that moment with
Spaghetti where she has Linda Martell
talk, you know, the genre. Then it I
think it goes from spaghetti to maybe
formation
uh my house diva.
>> That is correct.
>> And then it goes back to cowboy Carter.
And so in that moment you're like okay
so what she's playing with all these
different genres at once and then she's
undoing like our whatever we think maybe
is um house music versus country music
um versus uh R&B. And then she's showing
how in her own catalog uh that there
have always been these kind of
consistent whether they're rhythms or
their whether melodies that show that
she's always been participating in this
bigger question and conversation about
genres. So I think to me those are like
exciting moments because Beyonce's also
the musical director and artistic
director of her own shows. So that's to
your po your point about like her
understanding of her own catalog, but
the way in which she retaches us or she
teaches us how to understand it
differently when it's a new moment. So
in incorporating so much of Renaissance
in this show helps us understand well
this is the album that came before
Renaissance technically. Right.
>> Right. I mean, I don't know what the
true story is about or the official
story um for why Cowboy Carter came
second when it should have come first.
>> Yeah.
>> And we got Renaissance first instead.
>> I I mean, the thing that I've been told
is that
>> she had mercy on us and wanted us to
feel good during this terrible time for
human civilization
>> um during the pandemic.
>> Yeah, that's what she said.
>> And people need to dance. What? Who
comes first? Is that I think a question
for her. She
>> who comes first is really the theme of
the entire Beyonce experience. Who comes
first? Watching this show, I was
thinking a lot about where she is right
now in her
in her career and in her life.
And you know, there's a there's a couple
of other lineages that that are separate
from the live entertainer question,
right?
>> Um,
>> and one of them is just what it means
what it's going to mean to keep doing
the work
>> um of
performing on stages around the world.
>> Yeah. She's 43 and I noticed that
Beyonce's
dancing was not
>> a huge part of this show.
>> Um, she was very physical,
>> but she wasn't as kinetic as she's been
in other shows.
>> A lot of the dancing, a lot of the like
vigorous dancing is left
>> to her dancers, which now include her
daughter, Blue Ivy.
>> I think this is a really interesting
moment. I always think 40 to 45 is a
great moment for pop stars.
>> Okay.
>> If you can make it to that point. Yeah.
>> And still have any kind of cultural
viability.
>> It's so interesting to see how you use
it.
>> I'm thinking like Aretha's greatest her
second
>> biggest
>> popularity wave Yeah.
>> happens in her 40s
>> when she's doing who's zooming who and
jump to it.
>> Yeah. Joanie Mitchell tries to do the
80s with synthesizers and Madonna does
Ray of Light at 40. Yeah.
>> Uh, it's just a really interesting time.
Jay-Z does Blueprint Part Three.
>> Um,
>> and Watch the Throne with somebody who's
about to turn 40 at that or like, you
know, wasn't quite 40 yet. You know who
I'm talking about. Um,
>> I do.
>> I just feel like the 40s are this
interesting age. You and I have actually
talked about Beyonce turning 40 when
Renaissance came out.
>> And there's just an age where you
>> you no longer care what people think.
>> Yeah.
>> And you are ready to just do
>> what you want.
>> You've learned a lot of lessons. Yeah.
>> You're not old.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> but I think she showed us that with the
not caring as much with Lemonade. She
she fully embraced herself as like a
kind of artist who was going to
experiment with form.
>> Yes. Uh, and then
>> I mean that was her first what is a
genre album. I mean all the every song
is doing a different thing on the album
without anybody ever having to tell us
that's what's happening.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Cuz I guess people miss
that.
>> So we got to bring in Linda Martell to
tell us
>> Yes.
>> that the genre is a phony concept.
>> Yes. Yeah. But there's a way in which I
feel like lemonade marks an important
moment for Beyonce in terms of what
we're calling caring about what people
think or artistic experimentation that
then I think by the time we get to this
album, Cowboy Carter, she's just kind of
in her full glory. Each album and each
experience is her just becoming more and
more of herself. At least that's how I
see her going into middle age. And also
I see like that urgency. It's like I
don't know whether I mean a lot of
artists probably experience it this way.
There's just something inside that has
to get out and that she's just um
looking at music, looking at the
American song book, looking at her own
cannon and like where can I go next? M
>> I often feel there's there's certain
performances or certain artists that I
feel lucky to be in the age of and I
felt I feel that way about her because
it's just an extraordinary
um journey of watching an artist
continuously
redefine their art form and and what's
possible and that's really exciting and
that's what I mean like being able to
like witness someone have the uh ability
to do that and also have the power to do
That was really unique.
>> Were you thinking about her as like as a
43-year-old watching the show? Were you
thinking about transitions? Were you I
mean in terms of like life transitions
of legacy. Okay.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And she has a kind of
montage of and some one could interpret
as her her her highlight reel, but it's
really
>> where all of her selves flash by
>> and then she pauses.
>> Yes. to take in our applause. What she
shows us there is like how long she's
been in this game. I'm turning 50 this
year. So, and uh so I feel like I'm
thinking a lot about
>> midlife and and and what's left and
what's next and what's come before. And
I think um
>> in the same boat, man. And so I felt
like in that gesture that she that pause
that she allowed us to have that she was
having with us about her long career, it
was like I I don't know how many more
albums she's going to do. I don't know.
And she's also with someone who's
semi-retired, right? So there there are
models of from music
>> from for music and and then you also
have these two uh daughters of hers who
are very present in this show in very
different ways but that you see that
there's a gesture towards tomorrow
that's happening. So there's just a lot
going on with her I think in terms of
being 43.
>> I'm listening to you talk.
>> Yeah. And I'm thinking about like this
moment in the show that's built around
Flamco,
>> which is, you know, song on Cowboy
Carter. And I I just hadn't really
thought about it before. In the show,
you are watching Beyonce does the song.
>> It just becomes a full-blown Flamco
number. Here's somebody in the audience
who recorded this. And one of her
guitarists, this woman, comes out and
like plays Flamco guitar.
>> Yeah. And while this little girl dances,
I'm I'm calling her a little girl
because she seemed she seemed like 12 or
13 years old. She I also could be like
Stephanie Millsing her and she could be
30. I don't know.
>> But I'm watching her do this really
intricate kind of Irish jig clog dance,
but Michael flatly sort of oriented
something or other. Everybody's sort of
blown away by it. You know, big applause
when she's done.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I'm like flamco. I I I
listened I heard it again.
>> That song to me, it is her
>> realizing that she's changing.
>> Mhm.
>> And this restlessness that I feel like
I'm identifying in this show. Yeah.
>> Is in this song.
>> I want to sing it to you, but I can't do
that. Okay.
>> Um my mind's been telling me to settle
on down. Settle down right now. You
know,
>> you don't want to sing it. No, I'm not
gonna say it. Um,
>> day one's been telling me they won't be
around.
>> They won't be around. And there's just
something about her being up here then
going going high then going low, which
is like the most dangerous place for
Beyonce. Like the most dangerous most
dangerous level in pop music is Beyonce
singing down here. Um Um I hope you know
that I once loved you. I wish. Sorry, I
can't get up there. Um, but up here,
she's like, I wish that I'd known that
you would let me wander. Like, I wish
that I had known that you would let me
wander.
>> I see where I see I think where I see
where you're going.
>> I She
>> is getting free. You know, my soul is
reminding me that we're forever young.
Like the idea that this
>> dancer comes out
>> Yeah.
>> and basically does some version of what
to my trivial mind
>> is the footwork from the Run the world
video.
>> I don't know if you remember that.
>> Yeah, I do remember
>> like what what the close-ups of the feet
were doing, the wide shots of what the
feet are doing.
>> That's not happening in the show. But I
also think there's something about
>> Blue Ivy sort of her daughter
>> becoming a dancer.
>> Yeah.
>> Do you know what I mean? in the show.
>> She doesn't sing.
>> Yeah.
>> She's a She's a
>> She's almost like a muse in some way.
>> Yes.
>> Um this this this person who comes out
and does this flamco dance
>> or does this dance during flamco
>> um is an avatar in some way to me.
>> Yeah. Okay.
>> Um and it's like a it's like I mean talk
about eras, right? Talk about like
phases of the self.
>> Yeah. Um, I don't know. I just it's
something that really feels apparent to
me that is being worked through in the
show.
>> It reminds me of those moments when
people ask you, "If you could give your
younger self advice, what would you tell
them?" And it's like Beyonce looking
back at herself and also um reminding us
or giving herself permission to kind of
be free in the present
>> that maybe she could have taken certain
risks even earlier than she knew. and
and now that she's at the height of her
career, but also so deeply artistically
experimental in terms of genre, voice,
politics, imagery, um that maybe that
younger self, she's freeing up that
younger self as she's being free in the
present with us. That's what I mean by
lucky meaning that I feel like oh it's
rare to have an artist or anyone be able
to be to experiment this long to be able
to have a plat and she's unprecedented I
think as an African-American woman um to
be able to have this platform and
maintain it and and and for most part
own much of what she's doing. And then
she gives us these kind of political
messages that are really about us
finding ourselves in this moment and
creating maybe a version of America that
exists but also can be its ideal
version. So there's a lot happening. So
I think I I mean this is kind of why I
appreciate just the the moves that she
keeps on making. She's not giving up on
herself, nor is she giving up on the
country.
>> Okay. I think the way that we're talking
about this show is reminding me of
something I felt when I when I left,
>> which was not the elation that I felt
when I left the Renaissance tour. I was
I was giggling with happiness when that
when that show ended.
>> Um, I felt heavy
>> in a way that I was surprised by. It was
not a joyful exit that I made.
>> How was it in Atlanta? Did you feel
that? Well, in New Orleans, um, and
that's where I I went for the
Renaissance show. Um, we walked home
from the stadium and so I felt like New
Orleans is just this obviously vibrant
city for um, street performance, street
parades, and so we just were part like
the show continued,
>> right? And so that's why I was like, "Oh
man, I'm really happy I went to the show
in New Orleans." in Atlanta, we took the
train home and so we were still
surrounded by all of these people in uh
their beautiful attire. But I think when
you leave the show, you're reminded it's
like in that space of three hours with
that community and with Beyonce, there's
a sense of safetiness and there's a
sense of
>> an America
that is, but also an America that's
maybe being undone. M
>> and then when you leave that space,
>> you're kind of confronted with the truth
of it. Even in a a city like Atlanta,
which is my sister and I attended that
show, went to that show because we
wanted to experience what she calls
like, you know, southern hospitality. We
wanted to be in the south and and and
the black south and and experience
Beyonce and her fullness. But there is
this juxaposition between the community
of audience members that's created in
that that moment of the show and the
brute reality of what we're contending
with in America today. And I think
that's why maybe we had ecstasy with
Renaissance
>> and this was an exhale.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Um, and also like gearing up
for the the next day cuz you got to like
take the message that she's giving you
or the messages that she's giving you
and maybe that can sustain you and maybe
rebuild for tomorrow. So
>> yeah, I I agree.
>> It's not release.
>> No, it's not it's not release. Um,
>> it's something else. Yeah.
>> You know, there are things that I think
contributed to my to the heaviness of it
for me. Um, I'll go in the order of
profoundity.
Okay.
>> Um, they're all pretty profound to me,
but I'll just They're not even in order.
I'll just just dole it out this way.
>> Okay.
>> Um, one is that the second to last song
she does is 16 Charact.
>> She now is doing it on a golden horse. a
golden horse
>> that rides around the stadium
>> and she's singing 16 characters. A song
about
>> being on the road as a kid.
>> Yeah.
>> And now being on the road with kids.
>> Mhm.
>> And this is a this is a working mom.
>> Yeah. A working mom
>> up there on that horse.
>> Yes.
>> And it's crazy to think that she didn't
have a personal anthem until now. like
one that kind of summarizes a life in
some way. Like all the great musicians
have one, right? They've got a song that
is just like
>> this is the song about what it's like to
be me at this particular moment in my
life, but really bringing like the
decades of who I was before I got to
this moment with me.
>> I mean, cuz I'm thinking about this is a
woman who started I mean, not started
started, but like
>> you know, 16 years ago, we were talking
about single ladies, right? like she
wanted the ring, got the ring and here I
mean but but if you remember the
reaction like you know a reaction to
that song was like
>> this whole thing is about getting a man
and getting married. It's interesting to
think about the journey from that song
to 16 carriages, right? Or protector.
>> Yeah,
>> right. Like where where you wind up in
one place and where you wind up, you
know where that one place winds you up.
I mean, we didn't know what to expect
with the inclusion of Blue Ivy in
Renaissance, right? So, we were able to
kind of
>> watch her become part of the kind of
regular
>> she's part of the company.
>> Yeah. Now, Blue Ivy is not only just an
expectation, but she's also her own meme
as as manager, right? So, that the the
level of command that she has um is
pretty extraordinary to watch. I have I
have a fellow 13-year-old uh daughter,
so who also um is in very much in
command of our household. And so it's
just been exciting to watch Blue Ivy
master the form or at least in the
process of master process of mastery of
of um the choreography. And I and I
think Beyonce wouldn't, you know, as she
says in the Renaissance film, she would
not risk uh Blue Ivy being someone who
was mediocre up there, right? And so and
that's
>> I that was that was that was a moment
>> and and be and Blue Ivy
>> was determined not to be mediocre. And
so I think at this point it's just
really we're just cheering Blue on as
much as we're cheering Beyonce. Maybe
cheering Blue on even more because we
know, you know, she's like teen teen a
new teenager. uh uh touring with her
mother becoming not just like a you know
there's all this obviously
understandable critique of of the
children of celebrities having uh these
these options but I think blue's earning
it's nice to watch someone earning their
keep so to speak and earning their right
to the stage and we're watching that and
I think this is also part of maybe what
Beyonce is suggesting is not necessarily
her legacy has to be blue but that blue
is part of this family tradition and
that we're going to um see where it
goes. Uh, so it feels like watching a
child very different than Beyonce, I
think,
>> be able to become an artist in the
public eye without the pressure of
having to fund the family through the
art form. That's a different kind of
experimentation. So you have Beyonce
experimenting at the height of her
career and and taking genres and music
and black performativity and and new
heights. And then you have
>> wandering
>> wandering wandering
>> and then you have her
>> holding her daughter's hand and they're
walking walking side by side doing it.
It's really quite special uh to watch.
Um and then you have Roomie who's like
>> I am
>> like very different
>> like a total sprite who's like I'm
definitely in front of thousands of
people and I love it.
>> Yeah. And sometimes she doesn't love it
and so she's going to be like
>> Yeah. I called her on a night when she
was she was really feeling it.
She must have known the stakes final
>> perform. She must have I mean that I
just like I mean I don't know you could
serve her for Christmas. Like
>> that song is so special. Protector. I
just think it's been really nice to
watch these two children evolve before
our eyes in a very contained way cuz
we're not going to get Blue Ivy and
Roomie outside of these moments. Like
the last thing we one of the last things
we see on stage is her and Blue Ivy
>> saying I love you to each other.
>> Yeah.
>> Before they just go backstage and the
stage goes dark. There's that ping.
>> Yeah.
>> And then they're gone.
>> And I imagine the show that you were at,
the last show of the uh tour was
probably a really precious moment
between the two of them. The other thing
>> that really is still sitting with me and
is contributing to my sense of heaviness
about this show is after the two of them
say goodbye,
>> Blue Ivy and and Beyonce,
>> we have to go home.
>> Yes.
>> And the last thing we see on that stage
is not the two of them.
>> That American flag with all the all the
tiles
>> in the opening,
>> it's gone.
>> It's just a I don't even There is no
projected image. It's just the stage.
>> Yeah.
>> Um bare. Except what's on it now. What's
left on it is this this bust of the
Statue of Liberty. You know, she'd been
singing Amen, the last song of the
night. What is striking about this this
this version of the Statue
>> is it it's got its mouth is covered.
>> It's got a bandana over its mouth. Um,
it that image to me felt almost
apocalyptic in some way.
>> It it was one of the only moments in the
show that felt in any way like
explicitly political. And so, I don't
know, it was just wild to see that image
and then just
>> go home. Yeah.
>> And like it's unremarked upon. I'll
never forget it. And it's so weird
because I guess there's a world in which
you could look at that and find it
perfectly innocuous. I don't think
that's an innocent
>> sculpture that appears at the end of the
show. It's enormous. I should say it's
enormous.
>> And the lyrics to Amen are quite
explicit about
>> about monuments.
>> About monuments.
>> Can you bear with me from for a little
more singing?
>> Okay. Okay. We got lyrics.
>> Uh
>> we got bars coming.
>> Well, not I mean
>> I know you're singing, so
>> say a prayer.
Say a prayer for what has been will be
the ones to purify our father sins.
American recquum
>> them old ideas. Yeah. Are buried here.
Yeah.
Amen.
Yeah. Okay. Sorry everybody. So you have
this face of the Statue of Liberty
covered and then you have Beyonce
lyrically saying, "Can you hear me?" And
so there's a couple ways I want to like
talk about this one. Well, there's a
couple ways I want to talk. One is like,
you know, this idea that she introduces
with American Recreum about a a way of
listening and hearing, but also a new
song that's being born. And
>> if you think go back to like her speech
at um Vice President Kla Harris's, you
know, rally in Houston.
>> It's time for America to sing a new
song.
Are y'all ready to add your voice to the
new American song?
So you have like cowboy Carter lyrics
introducing pulling on this long dis
discoraphy of American country music,
rock, blues, uh R&B, all these different
genre, flamco, all these different
things um uh at once to give us a new
way of thinking and hearing. And then
you end with this gesture again, can you
hear me? And you have a muted bust of
the Statue of Liberty. And so it's up to
us, I think, to it's always been up to
us to to choose to listen to someone who
is um participating in in the the
prophetic tradition talking about
American ruin, talking about American
history, talking about the ways in which
we are refusing to and have refused to
reckon with our past. um somehow we've
kind of forget that this was a figure of
um freedom in a gift to the United
States to recognize the end of slavery.
So to me Beyonce is just playing with a
lot of traditions at once. Yes.
>> And then also reminding us uh and and
demanding of us that the a new song that
we can all create and that new song is
democracy. It's an old song and a new
song. It's an old song that needs to be
reborn,
>> freshened up
>> or maintained every four years
>> or maintain. And then also a kind of
demand of her listeners, of her
audience, of us to kind of not let this
project go unheard, not let take off the
the veil, so to speak, uh to bring up
like Deoce here, WB De Boyce, but to
listen to the democratic the spirit of
the democratic project and to live it
out. So I think that final gesture is
like it's a choice. We can either keep
the Statue of Liberty muted or we can
unveil it uh listen and participate in
uh the de democratic project that was
once envisioned as something of a
necessity.
>> It is such
>> on the one hand such an obvious thing
for her to do
>> but it also
>> is obvious because a lot of people
aren't doing it. No, no, not of her. Of
her.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that makes sense.
>> Um
>> and yet she hadn't done it before,
right?
>> Yeah.
>> She hadn't expressed
an impatience, a dissatisfaction
um
a dislike of of the way things are. And
I just think that that song
>> um occur like recurring at the end of
the album, it opens.
>> Yeah. Um and our shows ending with this
>> Statue of Liberty. Yeah.
>> That can't speak.
>> Yeah.
>> Um whose mouth is is is obscured.
>> Yeah. Well, a a figure of a a black
woman whose mouth is
>> right.
>> covered.
>> Right. Yeah. Right.
>> Who we're refusing to listen to.
>> It's such a That is a radical act.
>> It's radical. And what do you make of
the fact that this was I mean this back
to her sense of timing like this is the
album that
>> I was going to ask you this question
like what happens if this is the thing
that goes on in 2021.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. Instead of the other way around
>> it's a different situation.
>> Different situation
>> and even then
>> the idea that these two albums have
switched places
>> is almost cosmically fortuitous right
>> because
>> or just a her good sense of timing. She
like knows more than we know.
>> But but at the same time, I mean, the
thing that we're talking about is the
heaviness that this show leaves you
with.
>> Yeah.
>> Which is that
>> I don't know. Like, y'all came in here
for for sucker.
>> Y'all came in here for pleasure. I just
think it just would have hit different.
>> Yeah.
>> If this was what was happening
>> you know, two years ago.
>> Yeah.
>> Um versus it happening now. No, let's do
>> um I don't know if they even choose to
do it two years ago, like you know,
wheel this thing out. And it sat I want
to be clear, it sat on stage the entire
time people were leaving. I stayed and
watched them wheel it back.
>> It must have been five minutes.
>> And
>> I just I I was mesmerized by it.
>> Yeah. Um, and I just feel like the the
sort of
>> the radical choice
to just have that like be on your way.
Don't forget don't forget what's really
happening here, which is this
>> this thing.
>> Um,
>> I weirdly will never forget that.
>> Yeah.
>> I will I'll remember that for as much as
I remember the music.
>> Yeah. I think that's the point then.
>> Of course. I mean, yeah,
>> but as a choice for this artist to be
making,
>> I mean, and if you look at her long body
of work, which both of us have, um,
she's always been making kind of
political gestures um, in videos and in
lyrics subtly. Um, but I feel like with
Lemonade in that moment when we start
with like a tribute to Trayvon Martin
and then we end with the mothers of the
movement, right? those those close-up
shots of um like Eric Garner's
>> in the video in the in the in the video
part of the album.
>> Yeah. Uh Eric Garner's mom or Michael
Brown's mother and and we see them
mourning and we see that mourning as an
act of resistance. She's already
announcing herself as a kind of she's a
she's a a child and a participant in
that political moment of Black Lives
Matter. we are now just seeing someone
continuing that and amplifying that and
then you know if she was a participant
she's now kind of like in the prophetic
tradition
>> and so that's to me what is exciting
about the evolution of Beyonce as a kind
of political artist or an artist who
understands the stakes of the moment
>> of both the politics
>> and also is able and this is the the
trick is to make good music
>> that can translate into a kind of
political message that is extremely
>> hard to do and not done well and done as
often and Renaissance is a political
album too, right? So that that so now
we're just getting, you know, a
consistent body of work that's speaking
to the political moment and and getting
us ways of moving beyond it and new
communities and new um sense of
belonging. So there are all these people
coming to see Cowboy Carter, right?
>> You know, it's a very black, very gay
audience,
>> but there every everybody is also there,
too.
>> Deeply multi-racial.
>> And I just like I I'm really curious
about what people think they're at, what
people think they're getting from
Beyonce. Um, all these different people.
Is the is the blackness interesting to
them? Is the gayness interesting to
them? Like the the like the the sort of
the performance of of these things and
the truth and fact of them the
historical realities of these identities
and and circumstances especially in the
United States and you know I'm thinking
about what they know but then I'm
thinking about like what she feels
responsible to be doing, giving, saying,
being performing.
And what what then under all those
circumstances between like her domestic
life and her professional life and the
stakes being high for at least the work
part of it.
>> Um
it's kind of done
somewhat seamlessly
>> and and and resonantly. Well, I think
you know Beyonce is
one of the few artists that can command
our attention
um with a single gesture. Um and so I
think she's also at a place where she
can play with American iconography and
become American icon iconography, right?
So she can be a on a with a flag, an
American flag on a cow on a horse,
cowboy hat and also
>> represents America. And I think when
people come, so my audience was really
really really diverse um in Atlanta. And
I think we know what we're going to get
from a Beyonce show is some reflection
of ourselves given back to us. and that
version and vision of America that she's
contributing to and that she's part of
is something that's really broad and
expansive. And when we end the show or
she ends the show with the Statue of
Liberty with a mouth covered, that's
what's at stake. It's that it's a
closing of the very audience that you
just were part of.
>> These different peoples coming together.
>> Yeah. And and believing in themselves
and having a voice
>> for this black woman.
>> Yeah. Right.
One for America.
>> I mean, but but well, I mean, Salamisha
is one, not the other.
>> One and Yeah, they're mutually
inextricably linked. Wesley, correct?
>> All right, Salamisha.
>> Oh, okay. Okay.
>> We just We got to the end of Beyonce.
>> We got to the end of Beyonce,
>> but Beyonce didn't get to the end of us.
>> Bring me back for act three. We didn't
even talk about what you think act
three. There were there were as much as
there was a looking back, I think there
were like gestures to to something to
come.
>> I think she's like I think part of the
heaviness here is somebody letting
something go
>> in order for something else to come up
in its place.
>> I really think that that's
>> you got to make that space.
>> I think that's what's happening.
>> Okay. You think it's rock
>> blues? I know. It's like night nice not
to know.
>> Whatever she wants to give me, I'm I'm
picking it up.
>> Flamingco.
Sorry, Rosalia.
Sorry.
[Music]